# Notes on Setting up Vault

_Secure, store and tightly control access to tokens, passwords, certificates, encryption keys for protecting secrets and other sensitive data using a UI, CLI, or HTTP API._
Vault now supports auto-unsealing using AZURE/AWS key management system. This is a critical requirement since pods can be ephemeral which could cause a service interruption.  The current setup (under terraform/k8s-setup/vault) easily deploys vault in HA mode (using consul as backend). During its initialization we still need to manually handle the unseal action. Unsealing vault is a "one time" operation. After unsealing it for the first time the service should be able to recover in case a new pod is launched.

Vault requires an IAM account (or a role) to retrieve the key. Again this is a one time operation since AWS KEYS need to be manually fetched once. For now, the same AWS keys used to provision the infrastructure can be used. In the future, a new IAM account with a very resctrict set of permissions should be used (Allow kms:Decrypt and kms:DescribeKey for the specific key in use) to contain the blast radius in case of a leak/intrusion.

Initializing Vault should require the following steps:
a) run vault plans: (cd /workdir/terraform/k8s-setup/vault && terraform init && terraform apply -auto-approve)
b) Wait for vault to be initialized. When the pods are running, enter one of them and run the unseal operation:
`vault operator init -key-shares=5 -key-threshold=3`

That command should unseal vault. Note down the master keys as they won't be accessible anymore. Don't forget to not down the root token too.

Vault is now ready to start handling secrets.
